src/pages/2018-01-04-renaming-r-column-in-matrix/index.md, before:

---
path: "/naming-matrix-column-in-r"
date: "2018-04-01"
title: "Naming Matrix Rows and Columns in R"
tags: ['R', 'matrix', 'programming', 'kathmandu valley', 'ranipokhari', 'gahanapokhari', 'khhichapokhari', 'panipokhari', 'koteshwore', 'battisputali', 'kalanki', 'chakrapath']
excerpt: "I'm brand new to R. In my quest to become fluent in the statistics aspect of Machine Learning this year, I've ventured toward learning R in all its glory. As a part of that venture, I bumped into how one could actually give names to rows and columns in R's matrix."
---

## Naming Matrix Rows and Columns in R

I'm brand new to R. In my quest to become fluent in the statistics aspect of Machine Learning this year, I've ventured toward learning R in all its glory. As a part of that venture, I bumped into how one could actually give names to rows and columns in R's matrix.

Here's how to do so:

First, you get your column and row names defined:

`localities <- c('Koteshwore', 'Battisputali', 'Chakrapath', 'Kalanki')`

The vector `localities` above stores some localities in the Kathmandu Valley. We will have this vector as our row of the matrix we will define shortly. Before that, let's get t defining our column as another vector:

`ponds <- c('Ranipokhari', 'Khhichapokhari', 'Panipokhari', 'Gahanapokhari')`

The `ponds` vector stores some *pokharis* (पोखरी, in Nepali) around the Kathmandu Valley. A *pokhari* in Nepali, as you might have guessed by now, means a *pond*, in English.

Moving on ... so how far are the ponds from the localities we defined above? Let's create more vectors, shall we?

`distance_from_koteshore <- c("8.5", "7.5", "4", "9")`

`distance_from_battisputali <- c("4", "5", "5.5", "3.5")`

`distance_from_chakrapath <- c("5", "6", "2", "5")`

`distance_from_kalanki <- c("9", "8", "12", "11")`

Those distance are in kilometers (My approximations).

Can we create the matrix already? 

`distance_matrix <- matrix(c(distance_from_koteshwore, distance_from_battisputali, distance_from_chakrapath, distance_from_kalanki), nrow=4, byrow = TRUE)`

Finally, right? Alright, printing out our `distance_matrix` in RStudio gives us the following:

![alt text](http://res.cloudinary.com/dwstpvoqc/image/upload/v1522603265/matrix-in-r-1.png "Matrix without named rows and columns in RStudio")



Cool! Well, almost ... would be way cooler if we could just name the rows and columns too. And we can. Remember our `localities` and `ponds` vectors above? Let's put them to good use:

`colnames(distance_matrix) <- ponds`

`rownames(distance_matrix) <- rows`

Wooohooo!!

Look what we've got! A readable, understandable matrix (Why didn't I learn R before?):

![alt text](http://res.cloudinary.com/dwstpvoqc/image/upload/v1522603531/matrix-in-r-rows-columns.png "Matrix with  named rows and columns in RStudio")

Commit message:

final changes to the first post

src/pages/2018-01-04-renaming-r-column-in-matrix/index.md, after:

---
path: "/naming-matrix-column-in-r"
date: "2018-04-01"
title: "Naming Matrix Rows and Columns in R"
tags: ['R', 'matrix', 'programming', 'kathmandu valley', 'ranipokhari', 'gahanapokhari', 'khhichapokhari', 'panipokhari', 'koteshwore', 'battisputali', 'kalanki', 'chakrapath']
excerpt: "I'm brand new to R. In my quest to become fluent in the statistics aspect of Machine Learning this year, I've ventured toward learning R in all its glory. As a part of that venture, I bumped into how one could actually give names to rows and columns in R's matrix."
---

## Naming Matrix Rows and Columns in R

I'm brand new to R. In my quest to become fluent in the statistics aspect of Machine Learning this year, I've ventured toward learning R in all its glory. As a part of that venture, I bumped into how one could actually give names to rows and columns in R's matrix.

Here's how to do so:

First, you get your column and row names defined:

`localities <- c('Koteshwore', 'Battisputali', 'Chakrapath', 'Kalanki')`

The vector `localities` above stores some localities in the Kathmandu Valley. We will have this vector as our row of the matrix we will define shortly. Before that, let's get t defining our column as another vector:

`ponds <- c('Ranipokhari', 'Khhichapokhari', 'Panipokhari', 'Gahanapokhari')`

The `ponds` vector stores some *pokharis* (पोखरी, in Nepali) around the Kathmandu Valley. A *pokhari* in Nepali, as you might have guessed by now, means a *pond*, in English.

Moving on ... so how far are the ponds from the localities we defined above? Let's create more vectors, shall we?

`distance_from_koteshore <- c("8.5", "7.5", "4", "9")`

`distance_from_battisputali <- c("4", "5", "5.5", "3.5")`

`distance_from_chakrapath <- c("5", "6", "2", "5")`

`distance_from_kalanki <- c("9", "8", "12", "11")`

Those distance are in kilometers (My approximations).

Can we create the matrix already? 

`distance_matrix <- matrix(c(distance_from_koteshwore, distance_from_battisputali, distance_from_chakrapath, distance_from_kalanki), nrow=4, byrow = TRUE)`

Finally, right? Alright, printing out our `distance_matrix` in RStudio gives us the following:

![alt text](http://res.cloudinary.com/dwstpvoqc/image/upload/v1522603265/matrix-in-r-1.png "Matrix without named rows and columns in RStudio")



Cool! Well, almost ... would be way cooler if we could just name the rows and columns too. And we can. Remember our `localities` and `ponds` vectors above? Let's put them to good use:

`colnames(distance_matrix) <- ponds`

`rownames(distance_matrix) <- rows`

Look what we've got! A readable, understandable matrix:

![alt text](http://res.cloudinary.com/dwstpvoqc/image/upload/v1522603531/matrix-in-r-rows-columns.png "Matrix with  named rows and columns in RStudio")

Wooohooo!! Why didn't I learn this amazing language before? I mean look at that matrix and the promise it shows. I've got my localities, my ponds, and my approx. distances all captured in a clear, readable matrix. I mean: what more do I need? 

A lot more, for sure. 

In my next post, I intend to dig a bit more into R and capture my findings here.
